"Missä Ovat Nyt"
Benjamin Hecker

Interviewer (I): "Hello and welcome back to another episode of 'Missä Ovat Nyt, or 'MON,' in which we catch up with famous figures who have been out of the limelight for a decade or more. For those who are just tuning in: last week we heard from the Ojibwe Hero Hiawatha, during which we were able to clear up some misconceptions concerning his legend, and hear about life with his lover - the beautiful aboriginal Minnehaha."
(I): "Today's guest is the enigmatic rune-singer whom we call Väinämöinen. While few today remember Ilmarinen and the creation of the lost Sampo, even fewer remember that our kantele - with which we voice our praises, histories, and laments - was a gift from this great man. Our last gift from him, in fact, before he sailed west to ... well, that is why he's here today; to tell us about his retirement from creating the world."
[Polite laughter from the audience]
(I): "Welcome, Väinämöinen ."
Väinämöinen (V): "Kiitos. Thank you for having me on your show."
(I): "Not at all! Rather, thank you for returning. Our viewers are anxious to learn about your new life."
(V): "My new life ... is it truly new? Ah, well, I finally moved out of my mother's house."
[More polite laughter]
(I): "There were those who wondered if your grand leaving was mostly for show.  So you did not return home after you set sail for unknown lands."
(V): "Ha! No, although there were days - even weeks - when I considered it. The land so seeded by Sampsa Kylväjä will forever be dear to my heart. But as the parent who tearfully waves goodbye to the young maiden, hair unbraided, I needed to marry off my dear Suomi and send her off to another's land. I felt the kantele was a fair bride-price, no?"
(I): "I don't see how any parent could ask for more. So you wailed for your daughter-"
(V): "Wailed more for myself, but for the lovely lass too."
(I): "... Indeed, and then sailed off into the West. How far west did you sail?"
(V): "Far. As far as the ends of the Earth, and then farther still."
(I): "Err, sir? Väinämöinen? You are of course aware that the Earth is round, yes?"
(V): "And yet, who lives farther than Pohjola to the North? Perhaps *the* land is continuous, but *our land,* as you call it, must have an end for me to have left it at all."
(I) [Sighs]: "Sir-"
(V): "Peace, young Speaker, I am not here to do battle with you. I sailed until I reached the Lands Undying, as it was named by my new kinsmen. Valinor, as they say. I believe the name for it in Suomi is 'Islanti.'"
(I) [Deadpan]: "You mean to say that you live in Iceland. Wait, the Undying Lands .... isn't that from Lord of the Rings? I didn't take you for a fan of J.R.R. Tolkien."
(V) [Hums amusedly]: "Hmm ... that man was not entirely incorrect in his understanding of the truth. All fiction has basis in fact, you know. Indeed, I consider myself a 'fan' of his works. However, 'Ikuiset Maat' is a very - honest - translation of the true name for that place. Although, I may have been misleading when I said that your name for it is 'Islanti.' Rather, think of Valinor as 'Islanti Islannissa' - Iceland within Iceland. I do not live next to Björk, but in the hills as the elves do."
(I): "... You live with elves ..."
(V): "Well, it was that or continue west, and it would defeat the point of leaving my homeland if I merely sung one anew. Such was not the new beginning which I had envisioned for myself. Also I refuse to live with dwarves."
(I) [Completely lost]: "..dwarves....."
(V): "Imagine if Ilmarinen had Lemminkäinen's complete lack of anything resembling patience, his rudeness, his absurd love for battle, and his reckless disregard for all else. Rather, imagine Lemminkäinen with passable strength as a smith. Absolutely unbearable. And their mead tastes of their forges. Bah! The elves are much kindlier folk, both in mannerisms and appearances."
(I) [Weakly]: "So.....Iceland? Or, Iceland Under Iceland?"
(V): "Ah, yes. How to describe it in words? It is the kind of place where all may feel at home. The women are beautiful, the men are strong, and the buildings are perfect beyond any mortal means. The food is the equal of that produced by the Sampo and the drink is to match. If you can imagine the archetype - the perfect image of a thing - then in Valinor, all is so crafted. And the end-dwellers sing! They *sing!* To think that there might be others; other beings with whom I may again compete. Truly they are young, but they are wise youths; patient listeners and quiet singers."
(I): "I beg your pardon, wise old Väinämöinen, but my questions were ill-thought and our segment is nearly out of time. If you would, might you leave us with something you have learned? Something new that has come to you in your time away from Finland?"
(V): "Something new, eh? Well, nothing that *should* be new. Remember to listen before you speak, and sing only what you know. On a similar note, don't challenge people before you know them, or you will certainly fail. [thinks for a moment] You know what? Just don't be Lemminkäinen. I think that's something to which all should aspire."
(I): "Don't be Lemminkäinen; you heard it here first, folks! That's all for today; join us next time as we host Izanami, the Japanese Mother of the Gods!"
