Lemminkäinen Interview 
Brian Buxton
At the closing of the Kalevala, there is little more information about the great Finnish heroes and their respective fates. I have managed to get in contact with one of the heroes, Lemminkäinen and catch up with him on the fate of the land.
BB: How do you feel about Väinämöinen leaving Karelia?
Lemminkäinen:  It has been a long time since the old man Väinämöinen has left these lands.  The people miss him and his wise ways but do not follow his wise words. He was alive since the beginning of time and knew the importance of the land: trees, animals, stars, the sun and the moon­they are all now taking for granted. abused. The people only rejoice and sing songs with their kantele, but only for entertainment. I was like them at first too, but my struggles and injuries have changed my view. I was once impulsive and brash. I thought I could control the world and those around me with my strength and charm. Not until I lost all of those things and most importantly my mother did I truly see why Väinämöinen left with such strong words.
BB: What happened to you since the Sampo was destroyed? You seem barely able to walk and full of scars. You said you lost your mother as well?
Lemminkäinen: Yes, my life changed completely once the Sampo was destroyed. I was still young, and saw the departure of Väinämöinen as my chance for power. Ilmarinen had lost his mind without the guidance of Väinämöinen. He for a while tried to remake the Sampo but failed.  He tried again and again and it drove him mad. For years he continued to try and avoids all contact with others. Seeing this opportunity, I conquered a large area of land in the North and had all of the maidens I could desire. However, one day a great bear began taking the cattle from our village. Then people began to disappear. Soon we began the rituals of the bear hunt but I was not selected to be the man to kill the bear. I grew angry and knew I was the strongest men in all of the lands. On the day of the hunt, I disregarded the rituals and stuck the bear with my great spear as it slept. The bear was larger than any ever seen by the eyes of men, and I took the great pelt as a prize. My mother and the elders said I was a fool and disregarded tradition. I did not care, and hung it up in my home. The next night was unusually cold and frigid.  I had terrible dreams of the bear awakening, but it was not a dream. The spirit of the bear was angry and it came back to life in my home. It had mauled my beautiful mother and I was full of rage. I saw the great bear, looking massive even in my immense home and I tried to stab it with my sword. The bear broke my sword with its massive claws and tossed me across the room. I then tried to stab it with my spear, but the bear snapped it like a twig between its jaws. The creature pinned me to the ground and clawed at me for what seemed like days. With my last bit of life, I managed to get my knife and stab it in the heart. The great beast had been slain but my body was in shambles. Unable to walk I yelled for help, but no one came. After a few days, the elders came and told me I was cursed and no matter how I begged they would not sing any healing songs or aid me.
BB: If no one would help then how did you survive?
Lemminkäinen:  Eventually one person offered to help me. It was the young boy whom Väinämöinen had given the Kantele. He was an outcast because no matter how long he practiced, he could not produce a beautiful song. I and others mocked him but now he offered to help if I told him how to play Väinämöinen’s songs. I was one of the only men to have met Väinämöinen but I always felt he was weak and merely used his magic in foolish ways. However, I did remember some of his songs. The boy played and played while I laid stuck in my own home. Night after night he played songs that i taught him, not only Väinämöinen’s but also those of my mother. I wept for her and wept and slowly began to heal. After 3 days I was barely able to walk. I was disfigured and nobody would look at me or speak to me. I lost all of my power and sold all of my belongings for a sleigh. I took the sleigh to where we are today and built this home under a great oak.
BB: Life must have been difficult for you; this area is very inhospitable! How did you survive and what happened to the boy?
Lemminkäinen:  Life for me was very difficult. I struggled to survive and barely made it through the summer. I would often sing the songs of Väinämöinen which the boy used to save my life.  They were songs about nature and healing and made me feel better. One day, a fowl came to me and spoke, saying to go to the great oak and at midnight Väinämöinen will talk to me. That night I went to the tree near my home and put my ear to the hollow at the bottom of the tree. I heard Väinämöinen speak.     
BB: What did he say?    
Lemminkäinen: He chastised me for killing the bear and said I must forgive the bear or I will not survive the winter. He also said I must visit the giant tree every night during the winter and teach the boy everything I tell him. He said I would never be strong or rich or powerful again and must spend my days teaching others the ancient songs and traditions. So, I did exactly as he told.
BB: How did you learn to forgive the bear?
Lemminkäinen:  First I went to Ilmarinen and told of my issue of the bear. He seemed to be awoken at once and began to craft a great bear’s skull for me. I took the skull to the great oak and placed it as high as I could climb. I sang the songs Väinämöinen said inside the hollow and wept when thinking of my attack on the bear.  It is said the bears no longer attacked people and became recluse protectors of the woods. I forbade others to say the true name of the bear any longer.
BB: And what happened to the boy?
Lemminkäinen:  The boy came to me every night. I taught him lesson after lesson and song after song. He named himself Toivo and traveled across the lands that spring. He played beautiful songs with his magical kantele and brought people together. His songs tell the lost stories of the land, passed down from Väinämöinen. It gave people a common history and identity. Toivo was still an outcast of sorts, but his music was true and his voice was strong.  People love him and he has given them a connection to their land.
BB: I left that day and it is said
Lemminkäinen and Ilmarinen left not long after.  Lemminkäinen is now praised as a changed and wise man. This concludes my interview with Lemminkäinen, it was an honor to get into contact with such a wise and dynamic figure. I have attempted to find this mysterious Toivo but have come up empty handed everywhere I have gone. So far, his whereabouts are unknown.
