     Kullervo sat in the stuffy Psychiatrist's office, filled with books, certificates, and various bric-a-brac. He stared with a blank face at the Newton's cradle clacking endlessly on the desk. Doctor Krank cleared his throat and shuffled his stack of notes. The awkward silence continued for a few moments, marred only by the clicking steel balls of the cradle. 
     "So.." the doctor finally said in his thick German accent, "how are you feeling Kullervo?" He set his notes down and looked at Kullervo through thick bifocals perched on his sharp nose. 
     Kullervo continued to gaze at the moving steel balls on the desk. The doctor scribbled something on his notepad in a scratchy handwriting that only he would be able to decipher. 
     "You can talk to me Kullervo," the doctor said, "I am here to help you. You understand this, yes?"
     Kullervo turned his head to look at the doctor but said nothing. The doctor sighed quietly and Kullervo shifted his gaze to a silver letter opener shaped like a sword. 
     "Ah, do you want to talk about what happened? What you tried to do?"
     "Doc, do you know why I did it?" Kullervo finally said in a gravelly voice.
     "Because you are sick. You need help Kullervo. I can help you."
     "Sick?" Kullervo laughed a laugh that degenerated to a soft hacking noise, "Oh I'm sick alright dock. Sick in the soul. You think you can help me with that doc?" he rasped.
     "Well, I am not a cobbler, but let me have a look at your sole and I will see what I can do," the doctor smiled at his own pun.
     Kullervo glared at the doctor before turning to look out the window. The idyllic scene outside angered Kullervo, a quiet rage built up inside of him. The cotton candy clouds floating above the green hill next to a pretty blue lake made Kullervo want to destroy everything. His rage had been subdued ever since he was forced to take the doctor's medication, but it was still there, smoldering like the coals in Ilmarinen's furnace. 
     "Doc," Kullervo said turning towards the doctor, "do you know what it feels like to do everything wrong?"
     "We all make mistakes Kuller-"
     "I'm not talking about mistakes doctor!" Kullervo interrupted the doctor with a shout, "I'm talking about screwing up every single thing you try to do. Despite your strength and potential, despite everything you do, it all goes to shit!"
     Doctor Krank's smirk faded into a slight frown as he scribbled some notes on his notepad.
     "I'm talking about being born to the man who you think killed your father! I'm talking about the same man trying to kill when you're just a baby! I'm talking about being sold into slavery when the wretched man can't even kill you, a freaking infant!" Kullervo's fists tightened into balls of rage as spittle flew from his mouth. Veins popped on his red face, contorted with anger.
     "I am aware of your history yes," the doctor replied as he continued to write notes.
     "You're aware that I was abused by my new owners? You're aware that I killed my master's wife with a freaking magic spell?"
     "That was never proven Kullervo," the doctor said, "This belief of yours is part of your illness."
     "Part of my illness?!" Kullervo shouted, "Is finding out that my family is still alive, only to accidentally rape my sister part of it too?"
     The doctor said nothing.
     "Is seeking revenge, only to return and find my family slaughtered part of it too? Ain't no mental disease I know of that can cause bad luck, doctor!"
     "It is normal to blame the bad things in life on 'curses' or 'bad luck',"
     "Normal? So which is it, doc? Am I sick or normal?"
     "Can you not be both?"
     "You tell me doc!"
     "Well I believe tha-"
     "You know I couldn't even kill myself?" Kullervo interrupted, "I couldn't even fall on my sword properly. Maybe that was too tame a method. Maybe I should have jumped into a volcano."
     "Are there active volcanoes in Finland?"
     Kullervo stared at the doctor for a moment before yelling, "I don't freaking know!"
     The doctor scribbled more notes. Kullervo eyed the letter opener on his desk.
     After a few moments of silence, save for the dragging of the pen across the paper, Kullervo finally asked, 
     "Are we done here doc?"
     "Not quite yet," he replied, "I still have some questions about your future, and how your medications are agreeing with you."
     Kullervo rocked back and forth on his chair as the doctor continued to write. What the heck was he writing? Why was it taking him so wrong to write a few notes? Finally, the writing stopped. Kullervo's rocking motion ceased as soon as the pen stopped moving.
     "Now, I would like to talk about this alleged murder," he said looking through his lenses, "You know that my oath prevents me from divulging anything you say here, but I would like to get some more details."
     Kullervo's eye twitched.
     "You say that you killed this woman by 'casting a spell on her cows and turning them to bears'," the doctor looked at Kullervo, steepling his hands, "what really transpired." 
     "You don't believe me," he said looking down, "do you?"
     "I believe you Kullervo. I just don't think that you are being entirely honest with how it happened."
     "So you don't believe me! I told you doc, that's what happened!" Kullervo quickly rose from his seat, his fists balled up at his sides.
     "Calm down Kullervo," the doctor said frantically pushing a button under his desk.
     "Calm down? Calm down?!" Kullervo grabbed the letter opener from the doctor's desk.
     "Put that down Kullervo, you could hurt yourself,"
     "Hurt myself? We've already established that I can't even do that properly! But I know one thing I'm good at!" he took a step towards the doctor.
     "Security!" the doctor called out as he wiped sweat from his brow.
     Suddenly Kullervo lunged forward and stabbed at the doctor with the sword-shaped letter opener, cutting his hand. The doctor screamed and everything became a blur to Kullervo. He stabbed and stabbed. Soon his arms were held back by something. He felt a sharp prick on his arm and gnashed his teeth in retaliation. A feeling of dizzy numbness began to overtake him. The last image he saw before it all went black was the silver letter opener, shaped like a sword.


