An Interview With Lemminkäinen

On a chilly spring day, I find myself shuffling down a wet street in the heart of the city, the cold wind whipping past my collar and stinging my ears. I stand on a grey stoop in the damp, shaking uncomfortably, for several minutes before my eager swipes at the doorbell are finally noticed. Lemminkäinen opens the door and ushers me in with a sweep of his hand, where an older woman is waiting to take my coat and hat. The house is all but covered in doilies. Seas and seas of crocheted, lace, and paper doilies. It is spotless, though, and the furniture is covered with immaculate plastic covers.
 I get set up in the den by a crackling fireplace and warm my hands while staring up at the photos sitting on the long granite mantle, all of Lemminkäinen and the smiling older woman, who I’m sure must be his mother. He doesn’t introduce me. Instead he sits across from me, one leg folded lazily across his opposite knee, and adjusts his hair in a small pocket mirror before placing a “#meninist” snapback on his head. 
“Is this good?” He asks me, “Like, is this good lighting?”
“Oh,” I respond, “I’m not taking any pictures today, the photographer said you booked a shoot with him tomorrow?”
“Oh, I guess so,” Lemminkäinen replies with a toss of his head, “my mom handles all the dates and stuff.”
Abruptly, he yells, “HEY MA! IS THE PHOTOSHOOT TOMORROW?”
His mother shambles back down the stairs, a basket of brightly colored dirty laundry in her arms. “Yes dear,” she says, “He’ll be by at two. That way I thought we could use the afternoon light, it looks so nice when it hits your beautiful hair.”
Most people would blush, or look away when heaped with such motherly affection in front of stranger, but not Lemminkäinen. He sits up all the taller, adjusting the hem of his crisp black polo and sliding the compact mirror back into the pocket of his purposefully-faded pink shorts. His mother retreats into what would appear to be the basement.
I nod to the basement door and ask, “Is that, uh, your laundry she’s doing?”
Lemminkäinen doesn’t seem bothered by the question. “Yeah, she does all the laundry around here. She’s real good with the starch, y’know. Gotta keep my collars fresh and popped,” he says, plucking at the stiff points of his very starchy popped polo collar. 
“It’s, uh… a variation of blacks and reds, right? What you’re wearing?” I ask, “So… are these your ‘war clothes’ then?”
“Of course,” says Lemminkäinen, easing into a clearly practiced-and-preening interview routine; “I’m taking off with my boys for some rifle practice this afternoon.”
“And who are ‘your boys’?” I ask.
“The Men’s Militia of Wainola,” he says, puffing his chest out like an eager rooster.
I blanch a little. “A… militia? You’re in a citizen’s militia? You… are aware those aren’t legal, right?”
“Yeah, it’s whatever,” Lemminkäinen says casually with a wave of his hand, “Hey, my bad, are you hungry? I didn’t even think to get snacks or anything.” 
He turns away from me and towards the open basement door. “HEY MA! BRING US SOME BAGEL BITES WHEN YOU’RE DONE WITH THAT!” He shouts. 
“It’s fine,” I say, rubbing my sweaty hands on my grubby blue jeans, “I don’t need anything, really.” Lemminkäinen dismisses my attempts at polite refusal with a shake of his head. “Nah, nah, it’s fine. She loves taking care of people.”
“Well, she sure does take good care of you. I mean, honestly: that woman is a miracle worker. How incredible is it to have a mother who loves you so much that she’ll bring you back from death? She… she sewed you up, that’s intense. I can’t imagine what that was like for her.”
“Yeah, I mean, she sews a lot, so I hope it didn’t suck too bad, y’know? Like, maybe she had some fun with it.” He says, and seeming to sense that this question might require some sensitivity, he rubs his nose and says, “I mean, I bought her some chocolates after. Good ones too. Godiva, not Russell Stover. So you know, she knows I’m grateful.”
I nod. “And, uh, what about your wife, Kyllikki? Are you two… still together?”
Lemminkäinen uncrosses and re-crosses his legs, shrugging and looking off into the distance like an empty eyed plastic bobble-head. A bobble-head with a sexist fashion dress-up pack. 
“She’s here. Someplace. I don’t like her seeing visitors, you know? She gets it in her head that she can just… walk all over me then.”
I try not to visibly shudder. “But, um… she broke your marriage oath, and then you… went off to war again, so… doesn’t that mean, by continuing to engage with your, um, militia, that Kyllikki isn’t really honor-bound to avoid people anymore? She can go back to clubbing on Thursdays?”
Lemminkäinen looks a little red, but his eyes are set and shining. I am a little nervous. 
“I mean, I guess,” he says, “But not really, I mean, she’s my wife. She has to obey me, right? It doesn’t really matter what I do, you know, because I’m like, in charge.”
“But weren’t you looking for another wife for a while there?”
“Well yeah, ‘cause Kyllikki betrayed me, but like… that doesn’t mean I’m gonna get rid of her. She makes good pancakes, man.” Lemminkäinen replies. He looks at me with softer eyes, convinced, somehow, that his explanation is logical and not bizarre.
“So you… want to have two wives? Which is… also illegal here?”
He shrugs and slaps the cushion of the armchair he’s sitting in. “I don’t know why everyone has to make such a big frigging’ deal out of it.” 
His mother has since returned from the basement and I can smell the bagel bites cooking in the microwave. 
“How does your mother feel about the whole two-wives thing?” I ask, nodding towards the kitchen doorway.
Lemminkäinen rolls his eyes. “Mom’s so old fashioned, she’s totally against it. But I keep telling her it’ll be great! She’s getting up there in years, you know, and now she’ll have extra help.” 
He smiles gently, blue eyes twinkling. “I’m just looking out for her.”
I think to myself that hiring a maid would be a better way to help his mother out, but I bite my tongue. Minutes later, his mother comes shuffling back into the room with a plate of bagel bites and a pitcher of orange juice. I thank her. Lemminkäinen stuffs four bagel bites into his mouth at once. His mother retreats towards the stairs, removing a small plate with a handful of bagels from its resting place atop the pitcher.
“Where’re you going with those, Ma?” says Lemminkäinen quickly in a quiet and cold voice. 
The woman turns, eyes pleading and smile sweet. “I just thought Kyllikki might want some, she hasn’t been down since breakfast, you know-“
“She’s fine Mom, leave ‘em here.” Lemminkäinen snaps, eyes darting towards the platter on the table between us. “Besides, she needs to shed a few pounds, her butt is getting all cellulite-y.”
‘Uncomfortable’ does not accurately describe the roiling, queasy feeling I am currently experiencing.
Lemminkäinen’s mother dumps Kyllikki’s bagel bites onto the platter and heads off to the kitchen quietly. I stare at the offending morsels as though I’ve just starved poor Kyllikki myself.
But Lemminkäinen is unaffected by his dark outburst. He pops another bagel bite into his mouth and sips on his orange juice like a happy child having his after school snack. 
“So, what else do you want to ask me about? I’m cutting a new album, by the way.”
“An album?” I say, duly shocked. 
Lemminkäinen nods proudly and stands, walking over to the dining room table on the opposite end of the floor. He snatches up a CD case and brings it over to me. I take it in my hands and try not to make a face. The cover is a black and white photo of Lemminkäinen, on a stool, with his hat on sideways and a ridiculously sized golden chain hanging around his neck that says “playa”. His thin, tight tank top was clearly intended for a size-zero female, and the boxers peeking out of his shorts have “MEN’S RIGHTS” emblazoned on the elastic. 
I flip the case over and read the track titles, including such memorable names as “I Didn’t Break The Sampo”, “Two Girls Are Better Than One”, “My Mom is Cooler Than Your Mom”, “Ugly People Should All Just Die and Leave Me Alone”, and “F*ck That Swan”. I have my face hidden away in one hand as Lemminkäinen walks over to the nearby stereo. 
“I’ve got it all hooked up in here, surround sound, baby! Check it!” He says, and hits play, and the most horrendous screeching sound imaginable comes wailing out of the five large speakers placed throughout the room at a level of volume that physically hurts my ears. Lemminkäinen’s voice is the lovechild of squealing, greasy semi-truck brake pads and a cement mixer full of boulders. I can feel tears forming in my eyes. I blink rapidly.
“This is gonna put me on the map!” Lemminkäinen says gleefully, bobbing his head to what could possibly, maybe, almost be construed as a beat. 
I can’t take it. I grab my coat and tape-recorder, yell something like “Out of time! Thanks so much! I’ll call you when the article’s done!” over the din, and flee into the cold. It’s snowing, my coat is getting drenched as I sling it onto my shoulders, but it doesn’t matter. I can still hear the noise screeching out of Lemminkäinen’s mom’s house and I promise myself, and all of you, dear readers, that I will never go back there ever again, no matter how much I’m paid. It isn’t worth my eardrums, or my sense of self-respect.


