Evelina Pirhonen
Interview With Lemminkäinen

Evelina: “Hey everyone! My name is Evelina Pirhonen, I am here at the University of Minnesota interviewing a very special person today, Lemminkäinen the Islander, one of the three Kalevala heroes. As a group, Lemminkäinen, Väinämöinen, and Ilmarinen were able to steal the magical Sampo back from Louhi even though it was eventually lost in the sea. Lemminkäinen, when you are first introduced in the Kalevala, the readers are told about how you stole the beautiful maiden Kyllikki from her home. She argued and resisted at first, but then you two made vows to one another that she would later break. Do you think that if you had went about wooing her properly rather than stealing her your relationship with her would have turned out differently?”
Lemminkäinen: “No I do not think so. I think that if I were to have tried to woo her in the old fashioned way she would have only rejected me since when I first met her she was so against being with me. At the time I was considering what happened with Väinämöinen and Ilmarinen’s situation with the maiden of the North. I was under the impression that often times old fashioned wooing is unsuccessful, even if you are the greatest hero in your country. With my tactic she had no choice. She would have broken her vows with me no matter which way I obtained her, that is just the kind of person she is.”
Evelina: “I see. After you discover she had been unfaithful to you, you go off to try to get the maiden of the North from Louhi. Do you think the reward of obtaining the maiden of the North was worth the hardship you endured during all of the tasks Louhi assigned to you and then your eventual death during your attempt at the third task?”
Lemminkäinen: “I think so. Kyllikki turned out to be unfaithful and I would not stay with someone like that. The maiden of the North is one of the most beautiful women. To me the tasks were not terribly hard and my death was unjust. Dripcap attacked me from behind and I had no idea he was there. I was quite upset that Ilmarinen was the one who was able to marry her in the end and especially upset when I was not invited to the wedding. Although I guess in the end no one got her since Kullervo had her killed.”
Evelina: “Do you wish that you had not insulted Dripcap the herdsman before continuing on your journey to the North? Do you think you would have been successful in your final task and in winning the maiden of the North if you had not?”
Lemminkäinen: “I do not regret what I said because it was true. I guess I wish that I would have said it to him at a different time, after I got the maiden of the North. He is an ugly, wretched man who has done many horrible things. The way he killed me was cowardly. He could not face me and fight me like a real man, the only way he was able to kill me was by waiting for me in a position that I could not see him. If he had not killed me I surely would have completed the tasks and won the maiden of the North, although then I would have had to deal with the Smith Ilmarinen as he was promised her hand first by his mother.”
Evelina: “What would you have done if you had not been brought back to life by your mother?”
Lemminkäinen: “That’s a good question. I think I would have had no choice but to remain in the sea, in which case I would have probably tried to find and marry Aino the water maid. She must certainly be beautiful if Väinämöinen ever wanted her to be his wife.”

Evelina: “We last hear about you in the Kalevala when the Sampo is lost in the sea. What did you do and where did you go after the battle for the Sampo with Louhi ended?”
Lemminkäinen: “Well, I went back to my home to check and make sure my mother was still alright. After I saw that she was okay, I travelled around the world looking for a new bride since my last one broke her vows and I was unsuccessful in obtaining the maiden of the North.”
Evelina: “Were you able to find one?”
Lemminkäinen: “Sadly, no, but I will not stop looking. Plenty of women would love to be my bride, but I won’t settle for anyone who is less than perfect. I have learned from my past mistakes and will not repeat them again. I do not plan to take a bride against her own will or battle against anyone in order to win a bride. I think this time I will try the old fashioned way of wooing a woman. Although this did not work out so well for Väinämöinen, I am confident that I, being much younger and better looking, will have no problem finding a bride this way.”
Evelina: “I hope that you will be able to find one as well. Do you currently have any other plans for the future besides obtaining a bride? What about your promise to wage war against Pohjala and restore your home land?”
Lemminkäinen: “I do still plan to carry out my plan to go to war against Pohjala. Once I have enough men with me we will fight and conquer their land as revenge for the great destruction they brought upon my home land. The soldiers of Pohjola’s actions cannot go unpunished, even if Pohjola was mostly burned by the fire fish. This time, however, while I am on my journey I won’t make the mistake of making any enemies along the way or trying to woo any woman. I think my journey’s have taught me to stay more focused and be more rational with my actions. I should have listened to my mother more often because she is always right. After I have conquered Pohjola, I will rebuild my home land and Pohjola and allow my people to return home safely. As I promised to my mother, newer, better, and bigger cabins will be build for everyone.”
Evelina: “That’s great and so kind of you. Well I think that is all the time we have for right now. Thank you so much for coming and I wish you good luck in all your future journeys!”
Lemminkäinen: “Thank you for having me!”
