Assignment 1 
Frank Hanson

I live near Haudipudas, A small town on the Baltic coast.  Whenever my life is troubled, I like to walk along the beach.  It always lifts my spirits. I am having trouble with my boy friend. I don’t know if I will ever find the man that is right for me.

As I was walking along the beach I heard this beautiful singing.  As I got closer I found this woman sitting on the rocks.  

Lisa:  “Hello your singing is beautiful.”  
Aino: “ Why thank you”
Lisa: “May name is Lisa. I have never seen you here before.  Do you live near here?”
Aino: “Hi I am Aino. I do not come very often but it is a peaceful spot. My life is with the sea.”
Lisa: “It is so peaceful here.  Whenever I find trouble in my life, I come to the beach to restore my soul.”
Aino: “I know what you mean. Life can be so cruel”
Lisa: “Maybe I should move to a bigger city.”
Aino: “I do not like big cities.  They are so noisy and and with all the boats rushing about they are dangerous.”
Lisa:  “But the sea seems such a lonely place”
Aino:  “It is lonely but it is so beautiful.  I have played with the seals in the Baltic.  I have swam with the sperm whales along the California coast.  The humpback whales in Alaska are amazing. You must see them.  To swim along the barrier reef near Australia is always a special place. 
Lisa:  “You have been many places.  What is the most beautiful thing you have seen?”
Aino: “One winter was very mild and the ice did not freeze in the Baltic till late in the winter.  I was able to see the northern lights. They are so beautiful”
Lisa:  “They are beautiful.  I live far enough north that I have seen the northern lights often.  It is so beautiful living by the sea.
Aino: Ah the sea is beautiful but it is lonely.
Lisa:  It is lonely but sometimes the solitude is healing.
Aino: Yes the solitude helps with my music.
Lisa:  Where did you get this strange instrument that makes such beautiful music.
Aino: It is a kind of a kantele.  I found it in the sea a long time ago.
Lisa: Your music is soothing. I am having trouble with my boyfriend and your music calmed me.  
My mother says I am always running away.  My grandmother says parents used to pick the groom.  Women did not have a choice.  She says my mother should pick a groom. Can you believe that?
Aino:  It use to happen that way. Wealthy parents arranged the marriage and they had elaborate weddings that lasted for days. Other women had more of a choice.  Men carved spoons or parts of spinning wheels to show they would make good husbands. The woman would pick the gift of the man they wanted to marry.  Women had to provide a dowry of things needed for the marriage.  All of those customs have passed away.
Lisa: Have you ever had trouble with a boyfriend?
Aino: I have had my share.
Lisa:  How did that happen?
Aino: It happened a long time ago.  My brother got in trouble, again, with this old man and promised me as a bride to this old man to save his own hide.
Lisa: How could he do such a thing?
Aino:  In the past women did not have as much choice in who to marry as they do now. My mother wasn't any help.  She thought it would be wonderful married to such a weathly man.
Lisa:  There are no wealthy men in Haudipudas.
Aino:  I was starting to get use to the idea and went for a swim.  Some dark forces pulled me into the water no matter how much I struggled. I could not get free.  Several days later I saw the old man fishing.  There was a powerful magic about him and I went into his boat.  He thought I was a fish and took out his knife to prepare me for dinner.  I was so incensed that I dived back into the water.
Lisa:How terrible what do you do?
Aino: It was  terrible mistake. I could not go back.  Now I must live in the sea alone. I swim in the sea and write songs.  I must write the song that will release me.
Lisa: I wonder what that old man was?

She then sang the most beautiful but sad song I have ever heard.  The song brought up deep powerful feelings that washed over me. The song ended. While I was lost in thought she disappeared.  As I walked back along the beach the memory of the song continue to haunt me and I knew that some day she would be free.

