Grace Hinton 
SCAN 3670
Creative Assignment #1
Tuesday March 1, 2016 
Interview with Aino 
Q: Where have you been living since you last spoke with Väinämöinen? 
A: I currently dwell in the sea; I travel from place to place by the waterways. I don’t often stay long in one place, but I have gone back to the sea where I lost my life many times to mourn. I have met other victims of drowning during my travels. It seems the water has a way of taking girls like me, ones who seek an escape from the grievances of their mortal lives. In my new life, they have become my family. In the sea that bore Väinämöinen from shore to shore I float, as he has done. In the sea, in my afterlife, we are equals, Väinämöinen and I, and I can escape the power he and others once held over me. He now knows that he cannot keep me. He can never find me, as I have disguised myself amongst the fishes, unless I chose to be found. 
Q: What do you grieve when you go back to the place of your death?
A: Many things. I mostly grieve my fate. I died too young and too sad. Like the boulder in the sea, my sadness was a weight around me that I could not escape in life. In a way, my death was merciful, for I have gained many freedoms from it. But, I was happiest living on my family’s farm before I was promised to the old man Väinämöinen. Though I have forgiven my brother, Joukahainen, I wish that his arrogance had not lead him to challenge the old man, who’s singing ability and knowledge far surpasses that of Joukahainen. The guilt he has felt has been enough punishment for his foolishness. I also grieve my mother, who has been sick with grief since my passing. Though she partook in sealing my fate, and would not be swayed by my misery, she has regretted it deeply, and I forgive her blindness to my suffering. 
Q: Have you seen any of your family since your drowning?
A: I have seen my mother, but only once and shortly after my death. While she was lamenting my death, she cried a river of tears that travelled miles before spilling into my sea. I was able to travel up this river and I saw her on the river banks, crying with the agony of losing a child. I spoke to her, under the guise of being a messenger and not her daughter. The grief of the loss and the shock of my return in the form of a fish would have been too great for her to endure. But I told her that her daughter is well and continues her life in the spirit world that is intertwined with the mortal world. I told her that Aino forgives her mother and brother for their brashness and concern with bettering the farm through marriage. At that, she wept even more fiercely, but thanked me many times over and asked me to send her love to Aino. After some time, she gathered herself from the riverbank and returned to the farm. The river then dried up, and I was carried back to the sea. Seeing my mother in such a state was very saddening, but we both seemed more content to carry on after our encounter. 
Q: You mentioned that your mother and Joukahainen have been adequately punished by their grief and guilt. Has Väinämöinen been justly punished, in your opinion?
A: Väinämöinen knew I did not want him for a husband, but yet he pursued me because I was powerless to stop such an arrangement from happening. Though my mother and brother helped secure my fate, their grief has been enough of a punishment. Väinämöinen, however, only grieved me because he lost me. He never felt sympathy for me or guilt for his role in the weighty sadness that drowned me. He only lamented that he didn’t have me for a wife. To punish him, I appeared to him while he was fishing, so he knew that in my untimely death I was free of him and his greed. But my desire for revenge was not so easily satisfied. I waited a long while for the best moment to punish the old man further, and did so when the precious Sampo, the object that Väinämöinen deeply desired, feel into the waves of the seas that have become my home. I made sure that the Sampo was not spared the vengeance of the sea: waves, rock, and salt bit into the Sampo. It was churned in the deep ocean and beat onto the sandy shore by the sea until it was in pieces, far beyond salvage by even the skilled hands of Ilmarinen. 
Q: Lastly, are you happy with your new life, as you were so eager to escape your previous one?
A: I don’t know if one can truly be happy when taken from what you love. I am surely glad to be free of marriage to an old man and I am happy to be free in choosing my own fate henceforth, but, as I mentioned earlier, I was at my happiest at home, at my father’s and mother’s farm. My death was an escape from an unbearable existence and fate, but it has brought me a lonely happiness. I feel at peace, and find company with all of the other souls that became freed in death and swim the cold and endless sea with me. Perhaps I would be happier if I had rescued the Sampo and kept it for myself. But, in my experience, greed only begets misery, and I have had my share of that. 
