She sat before me at the interview table, every bit the beauty the stories had promised. Her hair hung in loose gold ringlets around her face, their color a sharp contrast to the bright ruby red of her lips. Her eyes, the color of a stormy sea, gave no indication to the thoughts behind them. The corners of her lips were turned up in mild amusement as we sat in an awkward silence. 
“I –“ 
She waved away my question before it had even had the chance to escape my mouth.  “Not before the wine gets here, darling,” she replied lightly. She peeled at the corners of the newspaper lying between us on the table, her own face on the front page. The words DEFENDANT KYLLIKKI HAHMO FOUND NOT GUILTY AFTER TUMULTUOUS MURDER TRIAL were splashed above a picture of the woman, dressed flawlessly in a tailored Prada ensemble. It was easy to see, even just in pictures, how she’d come to such fame and infamy; Kyllikki radiated beauty, poise, and power in delicate, awe-inspiring balance. 
The door opened at last, a server bringing in the red wine she’d required in the agreement for the interview. Her nails – matched up to her lipstick – clinked against the glass expectantly as the server poured. She gave him an appreciative nod as he finished, which he met before moving toward the exit. I waited to hear the door close behind him before meeting with Kyllikki’s now-expectant gaze. 
“I suppose you want to hear what I have to say for myself after the acquittal,” she began, taking a sip from her glass. 
“Actually,” I cut in, “I want to start further back. After all, Senator Hahmo wasn’t your first husband. In fact, there aren’t any records to indicate that a divorce between you and Lemminkäinen ever even occurred. How were you able to remarry in the first place?”
“Lemminkäinen,” she said, rolling her eyes. “Look, it’s not my fault his creepy mother brought his creepy ass back to life. Where I come from, your marriage is over when your spouse dies.” At that, her lips curled into a playful smile. “In a way, I should be grateful he snatched me off of that rock in the middle of nowhere. It was the start of my interest in business and politics, after all.”
“What do you mean?” 
“Oh,” she answered as if it were common knowledge, “when his mother went off and left me alone, I had to assume I was in control of the property. So I sold the hovel, of course.” Her eyes were glittering now as she recalled the memory. “He’d promised me that he’d get us a nicer place to get me to willingly marry him. I saw the opportunity to finally make an honest man out of him.”
“And you didn’t suffer any…consequences from your actions?” I asked, somewhat incredulous. 
She waved her hand again as if my question was ridiculous. “No, because I was smart enough to leave the country on the money. By the time anyone had anything to say about it, I was long gone.” 
“You didn’t go back home?”
“Of course not. What had they ever done for me? Tried to sell me off to the highest bidder is what,” she spat, her mood as temperamental as a flame. “They didn’t even come after me when I was kidnapped by a co-dependent narcissist. I didn’t owe them anything. No, I took the first ship to New York.”
“It sounds like you’ve come a long way from those days,” I offered, attempting to steer the conversation into a more positive light. 
“I have,” she agreed. “I swore, after 17 years of being a pawn, that it would never happen again. I knew my strengths lied in the art of feminine beauty, and I created a career that embraced it. Several decades later, I’m the chief editor of one of the world’s most successful fashion magazines.”
“No one can argue with your success,” I agreed. “But as you know, many question your methods. You never married poor again, either – and both of your subsequent late husbands were rich and powerful men who certainly furthered your own influence. Both of them died in…” I chose my words carefully. She’d called off interviews for lesser offenses in the past, after all. “…mysterious circumstances.”
“Ah yes,” she replied flippantly, wine glass in hand, looking at the ceiling as if she had never been more bored. “I was wondering when you’d get to this. Everyone loves a good black widow story, don’t they?” 
“The number of people who die by arsenic poisoning in the US each year—“ 
“Far too high,” she interrupted, “which is why I’m planning on setting up a foundation that addresses arsenic awareness on behalf of my beloved Hahmo.” She was no longer looking away from me; her gaze was fixed to mine. Her eyes issued the silent challenge: Accuse me. I dare you. 
“A noble sentiment,” I acquiesced briefly, “since the follicle analysis showed that he’d been exposed to it for months prior to his death.” 
“Tragic, isn’t it?” she sniffed. “Perhaps you could call it the luck of the Finnish. Look what happened to that Kullervo fellow, after all. Dark clouds seem to follow us.” She let out a dramatic sigh. 
“Your acquittal is a controversial one,” I began again. “Do you think the press coverage of the trial – which included some damning evidence – will have a negative impact on your career?” 
“This is America,” she replied curtly, “and I have a legal team prepared to ensure that no slander or libel reaches the ears of honest consumers. I’m not worried about the business that I worked so hard to build falling apart over a few nasty naysayers who have nothing better to do than pick on a mourning woman. I have fully cooperated with the court system and I have nothing to hide. I’m looking forward, not back.” I searched her face for some other sign, signal of who the woman was behind her calculated, cool façade. Again I was met with only an unreadable, flawless visage. 
“I believe that’s our twenty minutes,” she said dismissively, looking at a clock that clearly indicated otherwise. “I look forward to reading your article.” Her hand suddenly gripped mine in a surprisingly powerful shake before motioning for me to leave without another word.
