Jeremy Petersen
Kalevala: where are they now?

I’m here with Dripcap (märkähattu), an important yet often forgotten character from the Kalevala. Dripcap only showed up twice in the Epic story, but played the important part of killing the hero Lemminkäinen and casting him into the river of Tuonela. As we all know, Lemminkäinen was promptly brought back to life by his mother, and Dripcap faded almost immediately into obscurity. I’m here with him now to get his perspective on the killing, and learn about where he has been since. 
J: Dripcap, thanks for being here today.
D: *grunt
J: So you are the man who killed the great hero Lemminkäinen, correct?
D: I did, yeah.
J: Would you mind reminding us why and how you did that?
D: Well the guy sang magic at all my friends, and and then called me ugly and accused me of raping my sister. So I waited until I had a chance and threw a snake at him, cut him into eight pieces, and threw him into the river of Tuonela.
J:  A proportionate response, surely. Now, afterwards, Lemminkäinen was brought back to life by his mother, and you were never heard from again. Can you tell us a little about that? What did you think about him coming back? And where did you end up?
D: Well, after I killed him I just went back to herding, didn’t have much else to do you know? But then I heard about his mom stitching him back together, and I got worried. Around that time there was a lot of magical stuff going on, and I wasn’t sure he wouldn’t actually come back, you know? Well he did, and if you had been cut into pieces and thrown into a river, I think you’d want revenge. I would. And this isn’t you or me we’re talking about, this is Lemminkäinen. He’s not the type to just move on. So I started moving, because I didn’t want to run into him again, he’d be mad and I was fresh out of snakes. First I moved towards Thor’s new cabin in the west. It was different and out of the way, and somewhere that I didn’t imagine Lemminkäinen would ever find himself. 
J: You went that far? 
D: Yeah, didn’t like it though, couldn’t get used to the people, they do things differently there. So I made my way towards Estonia. I didn’t mind it there, it was more like home. I started to get uneasy though, felt like I was too close to him. It really began to take over my mind, I was always looking over my shoulder, waiting for him to come for me. So I left Estonia and made my way to some other Finnic tribes. They were similar enough that I was reminded of home, but different enough and moved around enough that I was less worried about Lemminkäinen showing up. The tribe I ended up sticking with starting raiding and moving southwest until we eventually settled down. They called themselves Magyars, you may know them as Hungarians. 
J: So you’re a Hungarian now?
D: I wouldn’t say that, I Iive with the Hungarians, in Hungary, but my home is still with the Finns. I’ve been here for quite a while though, it’s not too bad. 
J: Interesting. As I understand it, you are blind, correct?
D: Yeah.
J: How did you manage to do all of that travelling without being able to see?
D: It wasn’t easy, but fear is a great motivator. 
J: And what role did a blind man serve in the raiding Magyar tribes?
D: Well, it wasn’t easy. And I was left behind more than once. It’s kind of ironic, I killed a great hero, but my blindness kept me from fighting. Mostly I worked tending to the animals we traveled with, and doing whatever else they asked of me. Nomadic raiders don’t make a habit of taking care of people who can’t contribute anything. It hurt that I was a decent storyteller. Killing a hero and traveling as much as I have does tend to give a guy a few stories worth hearing.
J: A storyteller? What kinds of stories did you tell? 
D: I told them about my slaying of Lemminkäinen, of course they didn’t believe me. I also told them of my travels, of how how I traveled to the west, and rode in a longship. I told them about how I once saw a kraken, it came right out of the water swallowed up a whole ship. And I told them stories of the trolls and giants that lived in the mountains of the west. They liked those stories. 
J: That’s incredible, you saw a kraken? You saw trolls and giants. 
D: That’s what I told them, of course they didn’t think any of my stories were true. 
J: So, in summation, you were insulted by Lemminkäinen and then killed him. When you heard his mother was trying to bring him back, you went into hiding, first in the east, then in Estonia, and then traveling with the Magyars to modern day Hungary, where you have lived ever since. Is that correct. 
D: Sounds about right to me.
J: Fascinating, thank you so much for being here and sharing your story with us today Dripcap.
D: *grunt 
 
