Jim Nordberg 
An Interview With the Smith: Ilmarinen

Beside his forge, I met with the infamous Ilmarinen. The legendary smith sat down upon a stool next to the hearth, which hadn’t been touched for years. It had been several years since Väinämöinen’s departure and the smith Ilmarinen had agreed to discuss his friend’s departure from Finland and the years following.
After the birth of the king of Karelia, Väinämöinen sailed away from Finland. What was your initial reaction and how did Finland change following his departure?
Ilmarinen: “When Väinämöinen left, I first felt as if I was even more alone. I had already lost my wife and then my closest friend sailed away never to be seen again. The younger generations began to forge a new Finland and my forge was then useless. I didn’t have my old friend asking me to craft a magical sword or immense rake. Without Väinämöinen, my forge was pointless and the flames died.”
What have you done since, if you haven’t been forging magnificent products from your fire?
Ilmarinen: “I didn’t stop my trade immediately. The first thing I did was to create a golden Väinämöinen, like my previous attempt at creating a golden wife. I didn’t want to do it initially, but Lemminkäinen insisted that I try it again. It took multiple attempts, but on the third try, the old golden man was forged from flames. I thought that Finland would have its wise leader again, that I would have my friend back again. But, the golden singer couldn’t sing. Without singing, the golden figure would never be Väinämönen. After that I melted the figure down and looked for other things to forge, for purpose in my life. The occasional request was made by a variety of people. One requested a sword, another a crown, and a third a hoe. But none of them were special in any way. They were all simple, without any special or magical qualities. I even made them all in the first attempt for each one. There was no purpose with my work and I stopped creating. Then the flames died and I haven’t forged anything since. I struggled to find a new path I life. After all, I was no warrior, and I still am no warrior. There was little that I could actually do I farmed some times, but I knew very little about making things with nature. I fished some other times, but I knew very little about living from nature. Since then I have been largely idle.”
You mentioned your late wife and your attempt to recreate her; have you made any attempt to remarry again?
Ilmarinen: “After the golden wife experience, I haven’t made any attempt to remarry again. I have never had much success with women in the past and I am not the younger man that I once was. Without youth and without trade, I wouldn’t appeal to anyone. The maids and lasses of Finland are now for the next generation. Perhaps one day young and reckless Lemminkäinen will be mature enough to keep a wife. But for me, no, I will just continue my path as I wait for my time to come to an end.”
What has been your relationship with this new and younger generation in Finland? And what is the legacy of yourself and the events prior to Väinämönen’s departure?
Ilmarinen: “I once sailed across the seas, drove my sledge to the north. I fought, or at least tried to, alongside great men of Finland. We stole the Sampo from Louhi. We brought back the sun and the moon after the long darkness of night. We were great men in a great time. Then the kantele was passed on to the younger generation. The days of great men, great times, and great deeds were done. The legacy of those days still lives on, however. Men and women must work the land to survive without the Sampo. The kantele has given birth to our sense of community. But no one remembers, or more accurately believes in the origin of Finland. I was there. I have tried to make the youth around me understand, but they don’t understand the value that was the Sampo. They don’t understand the terror of having no sun, no moon, and no fire. They don’t understand what my forge could create. To them they were all tales of a forgone past. But I was there and yet they don’t believe me. To them I am just an old man with a cold forge and an empty cabin. One day, I will pass from this world. The great smith who forged the sky, beat out the Sampo, and created numerous tools of wonder will become the tale that everyone now tells. I hope that what actually happened can be of value for these younger generations. I hope they can till the land and live good lives with comfortable homes and healthy families. But I will not be one of them. I am a lonely man without purpose and will die as such. I will pass on from this land like my friend, Väinämönen.”
