Where Are They Now?
John Hanson aka Jussi

“Far away in dismal Northland,
Lived the singer, Joukahainen,
Lapland's young and reckless minstrel,”
Runo 3, lines 24-26

This is KALEvala TV, Jussi reporting on Joukahainen.  Do you recall, Joukahainen's and old Väinämöinen's singing match?  

“Vainly he had undertaken
For the glory of a contest
With the grand, old Väinämöinen.” Runo 3.
   
What ever became of Joukahainen? 
What is Joukahainen up to these days?
How is Joukahainen liking his new life? 

He lost the match and promised his sister, Aino, to marry Väinämöinen.  Soon after Aino died mystriously.  Out of jealousy and revenge Joukahainen shot Väinämöinen off his horse, and Väinämöinen difted at sea for a long time before rescue.

Joukahainen's exit was fairly ambiguous.  We searched for Joukahainen.  We went to his home in Lapland.  Would there be any clues?  We tired to interview his father.  He said, “He made his own bed. “  We tried to interveiw his mother.  She cried and cried.  We tried to interview his brother.  Stoic silence.   And, we tried to interview his sister.  Nothing.  

Joukahainen's neighbors led us to the swamp where he lost the singing match.  There we felt a magical presence, like drifting back to the creation.  Maybe, he was cast back into the swamp.  We searched the swamps.  We found no trace of Joukahainen.  We tried to interview an old woman in a nearby village.  All she did is sing poems.  We picked up a few clues.   

Hey, let's interview Väinämöinen in Kaleva.  Väinämöinen was packing to leave.  He didn't wish to talk.  It was planting time.  People were very busy.  They had little time to talk.  We were left with the poems the people sang in the fields.  These Provided small clues about Juokahainen.

We remembered that Väinämöinen came from the waters.  He survived the waves and rolling waters after Juokahained shot the horse from under Väinämöinen.

We went to the boats on rollers by the sea.  We found an old sailer who claimed to know where to find Juokahainen.  He talked about Juokahainen and told many tails.  He would lead us to Juokahainen for a price.  We hired a boat and went with the sailer.  He quoted Juokahainen's revenge:

“But the evil Juokahainen
Nursed a grudge within his bosom,
In his heart the worm of envy,
Envy of this Väinämöinen,”
Runo 6, Lines 24-27

“It is ancient Väinämöinen,
The renowned and wise enchanter,
Riding on his way to Northland;
On his steed, the royal racer,
Magic courser of Vainola." 
….

“Joukahainen,
Quick adjusting shoots a third one.
Swift as light it speeds its journey,
Strikes the steed of Väinämöinen,”
….

“Thereupon wise Väinämöinen
Headlong fell upon the waters,
Plunged beneath the rolling billows,”
Runo 6

Maybe Väinämöinen returned revenge.  We headed north into the ice cold seas off Lapland.  The wind blew from the east.  Then it blew hard from the northwest.  The sea was very rough.  The wind was cold.  The waves were high.  Was Louhi, herself, stirring the wind?  The old sailer said, “Keep going.” 

The old sailer told of seeing a young lapish man rolling on the waves.  He had a bow, but no arrows.  We searched south, east, north, and west.

One day we “fixed [our]... gaze upon the North-east, Turned [our] ... eyes upon the sunrise,
Saw a black cloud on the ocean, Something blue upon the waters,” Runo 6.  

Yes, it was Juokahainen floating in the ice cold waters.  We brought the boat up to him and tried to bring him onboard.  Wind continuosly pushed us away.  We could not bring him on board.  We threw some food out to him.  He appriciated that.  We called out to him.

We interviewed him as he rolled in ice cold waves.  

R: Why are you here?  J: “Maybe, I was cursed for shoting Väinämöinen off Juoko-land.  I was cast unto the sea, by poems and songs, to suffer the same fate that he suffered.  How long?  Years ago, I lost count of the years.”  

R: Why haven't you been rescued?  J: “I have tried to reach land and climb on boats.  Wind and waves keep pushing me away.”  

R: What do you eat?  J: “I catch fish and floating items with my bow.”

R: Aren't you cold?  J: “That is a supid question.  The water is ice cold. He, Felt a very great discomfort, For his feet had lost their toe-nails, And his fingers dead and dying.” Runo 7. 13-15.

R: Have you been able to float on logs or branches?  J: “Sometimes I sleep on a bunch up floating branches. but these are slippery.  Also, theseI my water-soaked skin.”

R: “Is there anything you like about this life in the water?”  J: “No!”

R:  “What keeps you from taking your own life?”  J: “Thoughts about my dear mother and my lost sister Aino.”

R: “What do you think about?”  J: “Now, I wish I could do things over again.  At first, I was very angry at Väinämöinen.  I called to the creator to do terrible things to him.  I bargained with the creator.  Help me get him.  I tried to sing poems.  Then I bargained forgot about Väinämöinen.  I just wanted help out of this water.  Now, I am resigned to my fate.  I wished that I would have listened to my dear mother.  I did not need to beat an old minstrel with song and peom.  I did not need to shot the arrows.  I was young, impetuous, selfish, prideful, and jealous.  Little good it does me now.  But, I am sorry.”

R:  “Have you tried singing your way out of this trouble? Or, have you come up with new poems to sing?”  J: “Yes, I sang and sang.  I dreamt up poems. I called upon the creator in song.  I made up new riddles.  Some, I think were very good.  I could go on, but my voice is tired from calling to your boat.“ 

R: “Do you think about your mother?”  J: “My mother warned me.  But, I went to kill Väinämöinen.  I remember her words the day I shot him.”
"Woe to earth for this thine action,
Gone forever, joy and singing,
Vanished is the wit of ages!
Thou hast slain good Väinämöinen.
Slain the ancient wisdom-singer,
Slain the pride of Suwantala,
Slain the hero of Vainola,
Slain the joy of Kalevala."
The end of Runo 6.

R: “Did you know that Väinämöinen still lives?”  J: “He does.  Where?  Maybe he can help me.  I am so sorry for what I did.  That was many years ago.  Maybe, he can forgive me now.  I will start over.  I will create new poems and songs to help young fools, like me.”

R: “Do you think about your father?”  J: “I remember my father forebad me to go.”

R: “Do you think about your brother?”  J: “My brother, yes.  I hope he didn't make my mistakes.”

R: “Do you think about your sister?”  J: “Aino, Aino, I cry each day thinking about her.  She is the reason I feel sorry for what I did.  She was so beautiful and our family's pride.  And, I … well, I can not talk about it.”  

R: “What do you do with your time?”  J: ”Nothing.”

R: “What would you do if you could get back to land?”  J: “I would go home to my dear mother.  I would beg her forgiveness.  And, I would hope to have bread, butter, and pork to eat.  Yet, I would be happy with cold cabbage and old bread.  I dream about nice sauna steam.  That is how I deal with very cold water.”

R: “Thank you for you time.”  J: “I have plenty of it.”  R: “Wait! Did you know? Väinämöinen is alive and leaving Karelia.  They say there is a new king.”  J: “Maybe, this new king can get me out of this mess.” R: “We will tell him about you.”  J: “Thanks, ja hei.”  R: “Hei.”






