Lily Obeda
Interview with Lemminkäinen

Interviewer: Hello, Lemminkäinen, it’s nice to meet you! Thank you for agreeing to this interview.
Lemminkäinen: No problem, sweet cheeks.
I: Erm, okay. Anyway, we would love to catch up with you. After your mother saved you, you--
L: She didn’t really save me. She helped me save myself. 
I: Oh, I thought she put your body pieces back together after you died, resurrecting you. I didn’t know you had anything to do with it. Is that not correct?
L: Well… um… next question. Can I plead the fifth? I’ll do that.
I: Oh, sure, no problem. Like I was saying, after… the incident… you simply dropped off the map. We saw you again with the kantele for a moment, but since then we haven’t heard anything from you in years!
L: Yes, well, I needed time to heal. I rose from the dead after all! Ha! Who else can say they’ve done that?! My mother doted on me day and night, keeping me nice and strong. It took a long time for all of her “medical expertise” to work. After all, she’s not really a doctor. I mean… she sung magic songs at me. Magic doesn’t really reconnect joints that have been cut apart, no matter how much my mother would like to believe it. But I suppose she did all she could in the moment. When the moment was over, though, I went to the ER. Just to make sure I was all in order. As for the kantele incident, I was high on painkillers at the time. I also may have been a little flat. But only a little.
I: I see, the kantele ordeal was just a mistake. You said your mother doted on you at home. What happened to Kyllikki? Did she not help you heal? Are you two still together?
L: Of course we are! She avoids me out of... respect for me. She knows I need my space. It has nothing to do with the swan incident, I swear. She and my mother actually seem to get along quite well. They both like calling me funny nicknames, like “nincompoop”, “buffoon”, and a lot of other words that they say with such force, that they must love me with great passion. Also, I don’t make mistakes. 
I: Um, of course. What else have you been doing all this time? You must have some sort of job, or hobby, or something to that effect. Anything keep you busy during your recovery period?
L: I’ve been devising plans for my revenge. My pride was broken after that ugly old geezer sliced me up, so I of course had to fix that. My first plan was to kill the swan, of course. I can’t have my pride tarnished by waterfowl! Second, I’m wanted to slice that stupid old man into ten pieces, so he can feel what it’s like to float in the river of death. I doubt he has as wonderful a mother as I, so no one will come save him, either. He probably scared her to death long ago with his ugliness! Ha ha! 
I: So you’re still after the maiden of the North? How did you fix that?
L: I already got her! I went back to Pohjola in another painkiller induced daze with nothing but an axe, a spoon, and some Easy Mac. Luckily, I told my mother where I was going so she wouldn’t worry, and she came along. I tried throwing the spoon at the swan, but it just honked aggressively and I began to weep. Definitely not out of fear, though. It was the painkillers... Yeah. Anyway, my mother saw that I had tried my best and decided I should be rewarded, so she killed the swan for me, and picked up the daughter from Louhi. That stupid old guy is still on the loose though.
I: So… what does Kyllikki think of this new girl you have?
L: Erm, she doesn’t know yet. I haven’t gotten home from my expedition. But you won’t tell her, right? Right?!
I: Err, of course not. But I think you should get home and tell her before she finds out the hard way.
L: What a good idea! I’m so glad we thought of it!
I: But you didn’t--
L: I suppose I should be on my way. You know, things to do, people to see. I’m a very busy man.
I: Right… Well, thanks for talking to me, Lemminkäinen. I appreciate it.
L: I’m sure you do, dove.
