Mary Ann Leukuma
TV Interview of Ilmatar, the water mother, airy maiden

Interviewer:  We are pleased to have with us today, Ilmatar, the water mother, airy maiden.  We would like to welcome you to our show as we have not heard about you for a long time.
Ilmatar:  Thank you for having me.
Interviewer:  We have wondered since the publication of Elias Lönnrot’s Kalevala what inspired him to put you in the creation story.  We understand that his source material had Väinämöinen creating the world from the eggs hatching on his knee.
Ilmatar: Actually, I inspired him.  The story had been wrong for thousands of years when I whispered to him in his sleep that the creator of the world was obviously a female.  Although females have often been relegated to supporting roles in general, birth has always been our domain.
Interviewer:  I never believed that Lönnrot had invented you. I am certainly glad that you (and Lönnrot) set the record straight. 
Ilmatar: Well, not all of Lönnrot’s tale is the truth.  He found the name Ilmatar in some healing charms and the name Iro as Väinämöinen’s mother in Karelian epic poetry.  I don’t use my original name; Lönnrot didn’t know it. To know the origin of things is to have power over them. I prefer no one to have power over me.
Interviewer: Can you describe for us your pregnancy with Väinämöinen?
Ilmatar: I don’t really want to. Seven hundred years, some say only 30, but enough said. Well, the birth at sea was the origin of Väinämöinen’s affinity for water.  As you know, my affinity is for air.
Interviewer:  Were you surprised that Väinämöinen would have called for your advice in Runo 5, except that he claims you were dead.  
Ilmatar: A mother’s burden is heavy; she does not lay it down at her death.  However, as I told my son, I was alive then, as I am now.  Rumors to the contrary.  I am sorry about the advice I gave him to find a girl in Pohjola; it probably came 100 years too late for Väinämöinen. I have never been very good at seeing the future.  It did get the big galoot up and moving.
Interviewer: Enough of clarifying what we learned from Lönnrot, why haven’t we heard about or from you for a long time?
Ilmatar:  Well, to understand that you would have to understand the reasons why Lönnrot published the Kalevala.  As you know, at that time Finland was a Grand Duchy of Russian after having been given away by Sweden in a treaty.  There were competing legacies, the governmental and administrative inheritance of Sweden and the new government and administration from the East (Russia, of course). Finland had to find her own voice, which Lönnrot helped to articulate by an ancient story, the Kalevala, told in an ancient language, Finnish. As Lönnrot ends “his” Kalevala,
That way now will run the future,		Siitäpä nyt tie menevi,
On the new course, cleared and ready 	ura uusi urkenevi
For new poets of greater power. 		laajemmille laulajoille,
Singing songs of mightier magic 		runsahammille runoille,
For the rising younger people, 		nuorisossa nousevassa,
For the new and growing nation.  		kansassa kasuavassa.
And Finland has done well.  Not since has it had such a strong need to hear songs about the ancients.  Mind you, there is so much background noise nowadays that I am not at all sure that our tales could be heard.
Interviewer:  How to you view modern day Finland?
Ilmatar: I am proud to be part of the origins of Finland and grateful that Finland continues to exist and that the ancient voices are still heard by a few.  It is a little too noisy and too far from nature for my taste.
Interviewer:  Maybe you could fill us in on what you have been doing.
Ilmatar:  I discovered a while ago that the best way to influence life is to drop a thought into a few key person’s mind.  If you watch very carefully, you will notice that a person seems to have an understanding of life, and especially the life of a woman, that is not explained by the times and places where he or she has lived.  One has to be very selective about whom to influence, but it can be very satisfying. Men, of course, need to be approached when they are asleep, into their sub conscience.  Women, on the other hand, are usually approached best when they are awake and contemplating life.
Interviewer:  Could you give us an example?
Ilmatar:  I already gave you one.  That was Lönnrot.  I introduced him to a few ideas about women and my deeds that he found useful.
Interviewer: Well, I wouldn’t say that he was a feminist.
Ilmatar:  You have to remember the time and place.  Improving the human race is a very slow process when one can influence only a few people at a time.
Interviewer: Could you give us another example?
Imatar:  You know about some of my interactions with my son.  He was from long before Lönnrot so we have to acknowledge that his life put him at a disadvantage to be able to see the woman’s point of view.
Interviewer: Did you have other children who were more successful than Väinämöinen?
Imatar: I wouldn’t say that Väinämöinen was unsuccessful, except, of course for finding a woman who would want to live with him.  Of course, in those days they thought of a wife as a hen one tucked under one’s arm—not a very forward thinking image.
But in answer to your intended question, I chose not to have any additional children, as you can understand, I am sure.
Interviewer: Could you give more examples of people you influenced? Were they all from Finland?
Imatar: Of course they were not all from Finland.  Let’s see, Denis Diderot, John Stewart Mill, Indira Gandhi, I tried with Golda Meier, but she wouldn’t listen, and, most recently Tarja Halonen. Plus, many I am certain you have never heard of.
Interviewer: I am getting the signal that our time is up. It has been wonderful having you here in our studio.
Ilmatar: It’s been interesting.  Thank you for having me.
