Michelle Evans
Louhi the Everlasting

KATARIINA: Welcome Louhi, thank you for sitting down with Helsingin Sanomat and telling us your story. Let’s start where the Kalevala left off. Last we saw, you came on scene as a pigeon to tell Ilmarinen that you released the sun and moon in order to save yourself from imprisonment. 
LOUHI: Yes, a pigeon in the end. I was the antagonist of Vainamoinen and by extension the enemy of Kalevalanders. Lonnrot painted me into a corner there at the end, but after the story I slipped through the able poet’s fingers.
KATARIINA: Yes, they’re calling you the Savior of the North, the Mistress of Pohjola, Louhi Everlasting. Tell me about that. 
LOUHI: Well, no bird am I now. I’ve done my part to put Pohjola back on the map. Up here we can’t subsist on reindeer, paper plants, and Joulupukki. I started a business putting our magical assets to broader use – Louhin Sampo. We offer a variety of packages – from magical day-spa retreats and week-long fortification camps, to month-long transformations. 
KATARIINA: I could use a day-spa retreat, but I’m not sure you and I share the same definition. What’s yours like? 
LOUHI: Well you could say it’s like a mud bath on steroids. You roll around in snake-infested Tuonela-grade mud, get exfoliated by a pack of wolves, and then take a purifying bath inside a living pike. Then you retired to the stream room for a feast of boiling blood-tea of the dead and meat of martyrs while listening to a live kantele performance. Participants emerge from the day rejuvenated and ready to take on the world. You should try it someday. It’s of epic proportions. 
KATARIINA: Uh yes, maybe…I am running a little ragged lately. What about your week-long fortification camps? 
LOUHI: We have a couple fortification camp packages: Shame Smasher, Ego Exorcism, Hero Helper, and Apathy Eater. Shame is a deadly disease. In Shame Smasher, we take sad individuals crippled by their shame and put them through three challenges to squeeze the shame out. Each day, we put the shame extractions in a vat, and they get to take home the vat oozing full of stinky expelled shame as proof of their transformation. People go on to do extraordinarily well. I think I might have something to do with the run-up to the American election. I won’t name names, but some of the candidates have gone through a Louhin Sampo camp, and our programs may have unleashed a few fearsome beasts. I don’t want to give any unfair advantages, so I’m having my people put in calls to campaign managers of the other candidates who could benefit from a bit of fortification.
KATARIINA: In Finland, what’s draws someone to Louhin Sampo?
LOUHI: Well one of the diseases most afflicting the Finnish people is an unintended side-effect of the generous welfare state, which has created a condition of courage-killing inertia. We’ve managed to strike a deal with the Finnish government to offer courses in resilience building for job seekers. We teach discouraged individuals how to find their inner hero, and we don’t let them graduate until they’ve defeated their lifelessness. Everyone graduates, and if you know what I mean, since it’s a boot camp, after leaving any challenge is easier. We’ve only had a few deaths during these camps, but we always manage to get folks back from the dead so they can complete their course work and return to life as a proud Finn.
KATARIINA: Are you making a political statement here about Finland? 
LOUHI: I don’t find engaging in political dialogue to be productive. What I am trying to do is bring back the ancient power of the Finnish people. A pacified populace is one vulnerable to threats by our neighbors. One thing I learned leading Pohjola and dealing with the whims of Vainamoinen was that a strong defense is the best offense. 
KATARIINA: Who’s the Louhi at home?
LOUHI: I went through a dark period after the deaths of my daughters and husband. Nowadays I like to cozy up with some snake-soup and mead and watch Netflix.
KATARIINA: You mentioned you went through a tough spot after losing your family. Is there someone new in your life? 
LOUHI: Funny you should ask that. In fact there is. Kullervo spoke to me from Tuonela. His suffering was the saddest, darkest story, and I felt like he deserved redemption. I conjured up a reincarnation spell from Mother Death. I tried once, tried a second. On the third try, Kullervo came back to the land of the living in all his radiant beauty. And for this gift of life I bestowed on him, he asked for my hand in marriage and promised never to stray from the Louhi of Pohjola. And I must tell you, for a man of hyperbolic proportions he’s terribly romantic and I couldn’t have imagined a better wedding. His forsaken sister came back from the dead and organized our wedding. In this life everything goes right for him. Plus I can neutralize his extreme strength.  
KATARIINA: I guess you sure showed Vainamoinen that a marital union between the old and the young is possible. 
LOUHI: Hey who are you calling old?  But of course I did say to myself, “take that Vainamoinen”. 
KATARIINA: What’s next for Louhi?
LOUHI: I’m not sure. Kullervo and I redecorated our house and all of Pohjola (good for business) and are in need of some R&R. Perhaps Salem, Massachusetts. I’ve got some witch friends there going through a rough patch. So we might do an American road trip. Haven’t nailed anything down yet, but luckily I can just pick up and fly whenever suits my fancy. 
KATARIINA: Indeed you can. Thank you Louhi.
LOUHI: Thank you Katariina. I’ve gotta jet. Someone’s gotten stuck in a whirlpool in the Tuonela River, and I’m getting paged. Duty calls. 
KATARIINA: Hei hei.
LOUHI: Hei hei. 

