“Where are They Now?” 
Molly Hyland

Hello readers! I have the pleasure to sit down with the famous “forger of the Sampo”, Ilmarinen. We are dying to know what he has been up to since we last saw him help to successfully steal the Sampo from Louhi. Specifically, we’ll be covering his current love life, his life without the Sampo, and what he is doing to keep busy these days! 
Reporter: Ilmarinen, this might be a sore subject but do you agree that you have been pretty unlucky in the love?
Ilmarinen: Unfortunately, it would seem that I do not have the best track record in the love department. My first attempt at love was with Louhi’s daughter, the Maiden of Pohjola, who rejected me even after I forged the Sampo which was a difficult pill to swallow, but I decided not stoop to the level of Lemminkainen and Vainamoinen whom just steal their wives and force themselves upon them. I would have rather kept my dignity than force someone to marry me and that is also why I created the pact with Vainamoinen not to take a wife by brute force, but to let her go at her own will. My next wife, was very difficult for me to get over. I thought our love was true when she helped me complete the tasks her mother presented us to win her hand in marriage and she was a very good farmwife (despite being tough on some of the help), but her violent death at the hands of Kullervo had me mourning her loss for months, until I decided to take my love life into my own hands. I had decided to create a “golden bride” for my mine to hold at night, but then I realized that she was far too cold and hard for me to lay with so that’s when I attempted to marry her off to Vainamoinen. Then for my final endeavor, I set out to wed Louhi’s youngest daughter, but Louhi refused so I had no other choice but to take her for my own. However, this was not a very happy marriage because once she insulted me I realized she was not right so I sang, turned her into a bird, and just watched her fly out of my life forever. I am certainly not proud of my conquest of my final wife since it was ironic that I made that pact with Vainamoinen to not force a woman to marry either one of us against their will, but I was a very desperate man at this point.
Reporter: That does sound like you’ve endured several obstacles in your love life! Do you attribute any of these women problems from your lack of a mother’s presence in your life?
Ilmarinen: It is true that I was not fortunate enough to have the guidance from a mother that Lemminkainen and Vainamoinen did, but I was blessed with having my sister, Ainikki, in my life. She is actually the reason that I am happily married! 
Reporter: Please tell us more of this new wife! 
Ilmarinen: Her name is Mira and she is the most beautiful in the world. After turning my last wife into a bird, Ainikki sat me down and told me what women look for in a husband. Women are in search for a young, good looking suitor that will treat her well and will be good with his hands for mending things around the house. But it was also important to women that a man take charge and show that he really wants her to be only his. And I realized that I was a perfect fit for that description and all I needed to do was find a fair maiden that I could woo and prove my loyalty to. 
Reporter: How did you and Mira meet then?
Ilmarinen: Ainikki was nice enough to point in the direction of the best looking maiden in town which just happened to be Mira. I decided to display my sense of bravery and I just walked up to Mira’s house and brought a plethora of items that I had forged to bring to Mira’s mother to prove that I am a worthy man of her daughter’s hand. In the corner of my eye I saw Mira standing in the next room so I sternly explained to her mother that I came bearing gifts in exchange for her daughter’s hand and I would not take “no” for an answer. And just then, I could see a tiny smile come across Mira face and right then and there I knew I was in love. And from there we got married in the same fashion that I married the Maiden of the North, but there was thankfully much less drama and no Lemminkainen at this wedding. 
Reporter: I can safely say that all of our readers are so glad that you finally got your happy ending, Ilmarinen!
Ilmarinen: I am also ecstatic of how my life has turned out, and the best part is, Mira and I have three little boys running around the farm who will one day be smiths just like their father.
Reporter: That is great news to hear that there will still be good blacksmiths in town after you are retired! The other question are readers have been wanting to know if how is your life after the destroying of the Sampo?
Ilmarinen: I think I can safely speak for all the Finnish people that life has been so much more blissful without the materialistic greed that the Sampo brought with it. Once the Sampo was destroyed I was finally able to discover for myself that money can not buy true happiness, and that family, friends, and culture are what is truly important to live a joyful life.
Reporter: Well thank you, Ilmarinen for that little lesson and it has been a pleasure catching up, I hope your life stays as happy as it is on this very day! 



