Creative Assignment 1
OMAID RAZZAQ: It’s been a few centuries, since the world last saw you, Väinämöinen. What have you been doing during your sabbatical?
VÄINÄMÖINEN: “It’s been a mixture of fishing, singing, and learning some new instruments. The Kantele just wasn’t competitive with some of these new heavy metal bands, and don’t even get me started on the boy bands!”
OR:[Laughs] I take it music has changed over the last couple of hundred years?
V:It has, but certainly not for the best! I simply don’t understand what the appeal is; most of the biggest bands have no natural ability and just use auto-tune. The absolute worst part is that some of the artists don’t care at all about the music in the first place! Take Kanye West for example, he spent more time advertising his newest album, as opposed to recording it.
OR:Oh come on, you must have at least one group you listen to as a guilty pleasure!
V:Well, IF I DID it definitely wouldn’t be One Direction. [Winks and laughs] 
OR:The dynamics of World Politics have changed drastically, since you were last seen. What is it like to just watch events unfold?
V:To be honest, I’m not sure that much has changed. Russia still seems pretty hated by most of the West. But the emergence of China has been really interesting to watch. Their identity has been forged in a very different manner than Finland’s and it is fascinating to wonder how it would have developed if the government wasn’t such an… integral part of their culture for the last century or so. 
OR:Would you say that government isn’t an important part of the Finnish culture?
V:Not at all, I think the Fins are extremely proud of their government! The statistics obviously show an almost unheard of level of trust and transparency between the government and people, which is something I’m not sure China can truthfully boast.
OR:Just before your departure, you said that you’d return when you were needed? How close have you been to coming back and what event or events really made you consider a return?
V:The closest I’ve ever been to a comeback was when Microsoft bought Nokia, as it really was a dark day in Finland’s history. But right now I’m watching the Republican primaries very closely because if there is a chance Donald Trump will be elected President of the United States, then the entire world has a lot to be nervous about.
OR:Trump has become quite the show, hasn’t he? If you were in a room alone with him, what would you do?
V:Sing him a new head of hair. [Laughs]
OR:Am I allowed to tell people where we are right now and where you live?
V:Absolutely not, I’m not a fan of visitors at my old age. There’s a reason I left in the first place and it was because everyone was stupid and annoying. 
OR:Speaking of old age, you actually look pretty spry for someone, who is hundreds of years old. What’s your secret?
V:I stopped eating fruits and vegetables a few centuries ago.
OR:[Laughs] You can’t be serious?
V:I am! The last time I saw someone eat a berry, she became pregnant! How do you think an old geezer like me would handle giving birth?
OR:[Laughs] There are so many things wrong with what you just said. 
V:Really? I can’t even think of one!
OR:What would you say is the worst thing that has changed, since your time?
V:All this rubbish about not being able to kidnap a bride is just utterly ridiculous. Back in my day, it was basically a rite of passage for a man!
OR:What would you say has become the modern day equivalent?
V:Football seems to be all the rage these days, and I’m not talking about that American garbage.  The lads all seem to just compete and try and one up each other by kicking a ball around and somehow the women all flock to them, it’s outrageous!
OR:Ah, do you follow sports pretty closely? Or just football?
V:Typically, just football. The four major European leagues are always the most fun to follow. Besides, who on earth would want to watch a sport as stupid as baseball?
OR:[Laughs] What’s wrong with baseball?
V:What is right about it? It’s really just become an eight-week sport and even then the games are SO boring to watch.
OR:Fair enough, it’s difficult to argue that. Do you have a favorite football team or player?
V:Not one in particular. None of the top teams or players are from Finland, so it’s difficult to cheer for them. Zlatan Ibrahimovic is the closest, as he’s from Sweden, but I cannot stomach the thought of cheering for a Swede.
OR:[Laughs] Zlatan is quite the character. Would you say that social media like Twitter and Facebook helped his legend grow in a similar way to how the Kalevala contributed to your own legacy?
V:Well, I think it’s impossible to control what is posted on social media in terms of keeping it truthful. At least with the Kalevala, everyone knows that everything that was written was 100% factual. That alone shows that I have a greater legacy. Not to mention, Tolkien based Gandalf on me. The only thing based on Zlatan is a plethora of Internet memes. 
OR:Well, Väinämöinen it has been an absolute delight and I would like to thank you for your time!
V:Of course, just remember to tell everyone to stay away from fruits and vegetables!


 





