Cow Therapy
Valorie Stavem

Reporter:  Growing up, you were part of the high-and-mighty society at your island home, then you sustained a vast drop in status in your forced marriage.  How did you overcome the disgrace of your kidnapping and make peace with the fate that life gave you?
Kyllikki:  You are correct in recognizing my status as an island girl.  You are also correct in thinking that I found something else in my character that has changed me.  I have to attribute the most significant influence to the cows on Lemminkainen’s farm.  Strawberry especially.  I always walked closest to her when we went to the pasture area.  Or perhaps Strawberry chose to walk near me, pausing at particular moments so that I had to pay attention to what  she was noticing or hearing.  Over time, this sharpened my  own observation skills in the forest.  She was my confidant.  I could trust her like I could not trust anyone else in my new life.
Reporter: How did Strawberry  act towards you?  
Kyllikki:    I was really angry for a long time, in fact about three years.  I grudgingly did my work, sneering at the members of the household behind their backs.  Had I done it to their faces, I would have been beaten.  So I became a good actor, filling my body with the hatred I felt until it began to consume me.   Over time the work became mechanical and dry, and I was starting to die inside.  I was destroying myself through rage.    I began to sense that Strawberry knew what I was thinking and feeling.  If I had a good day there would be a lot of milk with plenty of cream, but if I was particularly despondent, we barely got a cup of milk from her.   
She would lean into my cheek, which was pressed against her flank during milking.  She would turn her head to look at me in the stanchion and give my elbow a wet-cow-nose nudge.  She showed delight when I brought her some fresh clover or salt, and would come and rub her head against me in the cow yard.    It was almost like she wouldn’t let me be angry.  She was pleased with her life, and it seemed like she wanted me to see where there were blessings and little islands of enjoyment in mine.
Reporter:  How often have you heard of a relationship or communion  between animals and humans?  And especially between cows and farmer’s wives?
Kyllikki:    I think there is communication between different species, but I had certainly been oblivious to it as an island girl.  I usually kicked the cat out of the way, or shouted at the  dog for barking.    I suppose if one allows for an open space between beings, communication can take place.  Cows?  Well I didn’t have much experience with them before, and even now I really don’t know many other bovines, so I’m not sure we can make a generalization about this experience.
I can tell you that Strawberry was my favorite because the cow seemed to listen to my rantings, sighings, and sometimes even took fist-pummelings on her flanks as I was milking her morning and night.  Strawberry seemed to know what was fair if things got out of hand, and she lifted her back right haunch to give me a nudge, not really a kick, but an action  that let me know that a black-and-blue knob could be planted on my thigh, upper arm, or cheek.  This would have become the derisive talk of the neighborhood, as bruises from a cow show a real ineptness among farmer’s wives.
Reporter:  You left the farm after you saw the blood on Lemminkainen’s comb and brush.  How did that come about?
Kyllikki:  The departure itself was not so dramatic in the end.  I could get my hands on some food and supplies that were easy to carry, and thanks to Strawberry I had knowledge of the woods.  Being good at knowing directions and smelling the sea-salt air, I had always known which to go home.  
What led up to my leave-taking was probably more important.  I was glad to be with the cows after we became aware of my husband’s death.  I held my hand on Strawberry’s back as she grazed, and I guess I sighed a lot because she looked at me from time to time and leaned against me when it seemed that I was lost in thought.  
I surmised that Lemminkainen’s mother would travel to find his body and bring it home if she could.  That meant that she would be leaving as soon as she could gather what she needed, healing herbs, divination tools, and maybe some items that she could barter or use to bribe a boatman or another person whose assistance she might require.  Ainikki was away, and unlikely to return home just to be with me.  She was lending a hand at a large farm in the region, and was especially interested in attracting the attention of the strapping young man who was the farmer’s son and heir.  
I knew that I would leave, but my greatest concern was for the cows, Strawberry especially.  
Reporter:  You had become close the cows and yet you were prepared to leave them behind?
Kyllikki:  I think that the cows had served their purpose in my life.  I felt a gentle dissolving and frisky unraveling of the tie between us from Strawberry’s actions around me once I began to form plans to go home.  She seemed to stand straighter and taller.  She took confident steps in the pasture, maybe a final lesson to show me how to do it.  She walked ahead of me instead of letting me continue to lean on her.  She was jaunty and her bell jingled lightly as she set a quickening pace back to the farm.  It was as if she was saying, “I’m OK, so you should be OK too.”  
Reporter:  But who would take care of the milking? Cows can’t be let loose to fend for themselves.
Kyllikki:  Strawberry helped me with this decision too.  There was a neighboring farm widow who shared the same grazing area as us.  We saw each other nearly every day, and sometimes had polite conversation about the weather or the cows.  She was poor like we were, so there were no servants, which is why both of us tended to our herd; well, herd is a rather large word.  Really she had two cows and I had three.  At a point in my thinking when I was working out some details, like how I would leave, what I would take with me, where I would go, and what would happen to the cows, Strawberry trotted off to the other side of the clearing to our neighbor and her red and white cows.  She was frisky, kicking up her heels a little and bobbing her head the closer she got to them, and her energy excited the rest of the herd, so that they followed her and joined in the frolic.  You’ve heard of cats leaping about when they are in contact with catnip?  Well it was like that.  I saw it as a message to me.  Give the cows to my neighbor.  Do a good deed.  Pack up your traveling bundle and head home  through the woods, and to the sea.
Reporter:  What do you wonder about Strawberry now when you think of her?
Kyllikki:  I hear her bell sounding in the morning and evening.  She says, “Hey, things are moving along here.  In exchange for cow therapy I get some tasty grass, a lick of salt, and a warm, if wrinkled cheek against my flank morning and evening.”  I send a little message back, “Don’t jump over the moon.”
