Creative Assignment 1
Zach Jadro

Our next guest has deeply influenced the Kalevala and in turn Finnish culture. Having spent a great deal of time within his mother Illmatar’s womb, he was born to her and his absent father as an old man, bearded and wise. Responsible for really vegetating the earth that his mom played a role in creating, this man has accomplished much in his life outside of the womb. Also known for singing men into swamps, that’s right, it’s our next guest: Vainamoinen! 

Me: Good evening Vainaimoinen! How is everything?
V: Oh, you know, things are good.  Happy to still be on this planet. Really am enjoying no being in the public eye for the most part and doing my own thing.
Me: Great to hear! So let’s get straight to the nitty gritty of this interview. You are famous for your role in the Kalevala and what you have done for our planet. Upon the end of the epic, what have you been up to?
V: Oh, I think a better question is what I have not been doing. I have been living on my own in this nice remote cabin in the forest. I have a nice little river nearby, plenty of trees, and a little bit of a swamp, you know. Just in case I get any unwanted visitors or overconfident young men looking to challenge me. 
Me: So it is safe to assume that singing is still an interest of yours huh?
V: Oh yes, most definitely. Although it has been a while since I have last sung somebody into one. Perhaps I am overdue! 
Me: You very well may be! Just let another person visit before I make my attempt! But, honestly Vainamoinen, do you really expect me and the rest of the world to believe that you have only been hunkered up in your cabin all these years? Because, honestly, I’m a little skeptical. 
V: Well I suppose that I have made a couple trips into civilization to influence a thing or two here and there. 
Me: There we go, I knew it! Would you care to elaborate on what you have influenced?
V: Well I have influenced a lot actually.
Me: That was awfully vague. Would you care to be specific on what you have done?
V: Oh, well I suppose you have heard and are aware of the accomplishments of the late great John Muir?
Me: Of course! Everybody knows of Mister Muir.
V: Yes, well, where do you think he really got his passion for nature and the environment? Before he left Scotland and came here to the United States, I mentored him. 
Me: That is amazing! However, John Muir came to the United States when he was just a young boy. How much could you have really influenced him?
V: More than you could imagine, Zach. Yes my time face to face with John was limited to his childhood, but we stayed in contact via my mystical powers. If he had a question I was always there to answer it. That is how he became to be one of the most famous of naturists, environmentalist, and all around stand up guy. Many sites in nature bear his name if I am not mistaken.
Me: You are definitely correct on that! Have you gotten the chance to mentor anybody else?
V: Well none as famous as John Muir, but I have had the opportunity to mentor somebody that the state of Wisconsin knows pretty well actually! I am assuming you have heard of Aldo Leopold?
Me: Well, I was born and raised in California, so I have only heard Leopold’s name in passing.
V: Well most of those from Wisconsin can tell you that he was a great ecologist, conservationist, and environmentalist. He has also written a couple books I believe. I am also under the impression that he has taught at the University of Wisconsin- Madison, so I am surprised that your young mind has not heard more about the man. Aldo was indeed a great man.
Me: Looks like I need to do some homework! I hate to point out the obvious, but both your mentees have since passed; yet you are still alive and well. How did you take their deaths?
V: Well of course it isn’t the most cheerful thing to take place in this life, but it is necessary. They have both left their marks on this world and will be remembered by many for their accomplishments. For that, I am proud to have played a role in their lives. 
Me: I’d like to ask one last question before we have to wrap up this interview. What is next for you?
V: Oh, well that is certainly a question. I suppose I will head back to my cabin and go from there. I do not really foresee mentoring anymore; I quite enjoy my solitude live amongst nature. However, if some bright mind comes into my attention, I’d have no problem offering my help.
Me: This certainly has been a great interview Vainamoinen! I am so very glad you were available and took your time to give us all an update on what you have been doing! 
This is Zach Jadro with some random news company. Have a good night!


